Hello everyone.
In this lesson we will learn how to improve our sight speed and make it load faster by using a technique
named lazy loading.
Let's begin with the obvious question and ask what is lazy loading.
To answer that let's hop into our web browser from here.
I want to open up the browsers developer tools.
The simplest way to do that is to right click anywhere on the page and click inspect that will open
your developer tools.
And from here I want you to click on the Network tab.
All right with that open now I want you to refresh the page from your keyboard.
If you're using Windows you can press control and are if you're using a Mac you can press command and
are.
All right.
So what is this giant list.
Well these are all of the you are URLs and files that our page has requested.
Now the reason I'm showing this to you is because I want to point out that by default when we visit
a site our Web browser will try to download everything on the page immediately.
Now that may be the web browsers default behavior but as a developer we can customize it and make it
better.
So for example let's focus on the way that the browser downloads are image files.
So if we click on this icon we can filter the list and lets say that we only want to see the image files.
Now here's my question for you.
Do we really need to download all of these image files as soon as the page loads.
So for example here are the three testimonial images we know that the testimonials are at the very bottom
of the page.
So do we really need to download these files as soon as the page loads.
Or could we wait until a user has scrolled down the page a bit.
What if a visitor closes our page before they even scroll to the bottom.
In that case we just forced them to download image files.
They never even saw.
That's a complete waste of their data plan.
So the idea behind lazy loading is to only download assets as they become necessary in this lesson we
are going to focus on lazy loading our images we only want to download images as they are getting ready
to be scrolled into view.
All right.
So now we know what our goal is for this lesson.
Let's roll up our sleeves and make it happen.
Let's begin by jumping over to the command line and let's take care of our get branches.
So in our previous lesson we completed the create modal functionality so let's merge this branch back
into Master.
Let's run it get status to see what has changed.
All of these changes look good to me.
Let's add them to our staging area.
Let's commit that staging area and include a message completed the modal overlay.
All right.
Now that we've committed those changes we can jump back to our master branch.
So get check out master.
And now we just want to merge the create mobile branch into it.
So get merge create modal.
Now just in case our computer blows up tonight we don't want to lose our progress.
So why don't we push our repo up to GitHub so we can say get push origin master All right.
So now GitHub has our latest copy of the master branch.
Now let's go ahead and create a new branch for this lazy loading feature.
Why don't we try something a little different this time.
Let's say get branch and then the name of the branch.
We want to create.
Let's just call it lazy loading.
So that created the new branch but now we need to check out the new branch or switch to it so we can
just say get check out lazy loading.
All right.
So now we are working within a new branch.
Let's get to work.
We can actually stay in the command line for now because the first thing we want to do is download a
lazy loading library from NPM.
So type in this command with me npm install in the name of the package is lazy sizes we do not need
to include dash dash save Dev at the end because this is not a package that makes our workflow easier.
This is a package that we actually want the visitors to download.
In other words this is a direct dependency not a death dependency.
Let's go ahead and press enter
as soon as the package finishes downloading.
Let's be sure to start our web pack task up again.
So NPM run Dev OK.
Now leveraging the lazy sizes packages could not be any simpler.
We just need to go into our main JavaScript file so that's app assets scripts app dot J.S. and towards
the very top maybe right after the line where we import our CSF.
We can just say import and we don't need to name it we can just import the entire module.
So just quotes and the name of the package.
Lazy sizes and that's it.
We don't need to create a new instance of it.
The package will take care of everything.
So let's go ahead and save this file.
And now we just need to jump into our HDMI file to tell lazy sizes which images we want to be lazy loaded
as opposed to just loading the standard or typical way.
So do this with me jump into your index that HDMI file so towards the very top.
We don't need the lazy load anything right.
Because even if someone's on a very small screen they're going to be able to see this photo immediately.
I think the first image we would want to lazy load would be this image.
So in our HD CML Let's scroll down to about line number fifty five.
That is the our beginning area.
And for me it's around line number sixty one where we actually see that image.
Now to tell the lazy sizes packages to do its job we just need to give this image an extra class currently
this image doesn't have any classes.
So let's give it an attribute class and let's give it a value of lazy load.
So the lazy sizes packages will look for any image on the page that has this class lazy load on this
same image element.
We also need to find the source set attribute.
Now by default when a Web browser sees the source set or the source attribute is going to try to download
this immediately.
However if we change this attribute to instead be data dash source said well web browsers are not programmed
to immediately download this attribute.
So that takes care of that image.
Let's scroll down and find this image.
So for me that begins around line number 66.
So on this source element here is source set right.
That's what's listing the actual J pigs.
So just change that to be data Dash.
Sources do the same thing for this day to dash around line number sixty nine we see the actual image
element.
So change that to data source set as well.
And finally on the actual image element let's give it a class of lazy load.
OK.
Now you could apply lazy loading to our SPG images if you wanted to but they're so small.
I'm not going to worry about it for now let's apply lazy loading to the three images down in the testimonials
section.
So around line number 123 we begin the testimonials area.
So here is the first of three images.
Let's change source that could be data Dash.
Source set and give the image element a class of lazy loan.
OK.
Let's take care of the other two testimonial photos.
So change this to data dash so asset class should be lazy load.
Here's the third and final testimonial photo data dash class people's lazy load.
Let's go ahead and save this and then back in your browser go ahead and scroll up to the very top and
perform a manual refresh.
Actually first make sure that your developer tools network tab is open so inspect and then open up the
network tab and then perform another refresh right now OK.
Now depending on the size of your browser window and depending on how zoomed in or zoomed out you are
that's going to affect what lazy sizes thinks that it should download ahead of time.
So at my current zoom level and the size of my browser report I believe it's going to download all of
the images except for the three testimonials in the very bottom.
The easiest way to test this is back in your network tab.
You can click this clear icon it's a circle with a line through it that will clear the list of files
that have been downloaded and then let me resize my windows so I can see my network tab even while I'm
viewing the Web site.
OK.
So I will refresh again and clear the network history once again.
And now as I scroll down
you'll see right about here.
Lazy sizes just loaded the first testimonial image.
If I scroll down a tiny bit further it loads the second testimonial and finally if I scroll down a bit
further it loads the final and third testimonial image.
Cool.
And that's all it takes to implement lazy loading for your images lazy sizes is a great package that's
already thought of every detail I've read their documentation and they've even made sure that your search
engine optimization score with Google will not be affected.
Images are not actually hidden from the Google crawler.
The lazy sizes JavaScript can detect if the current device that's access in your website can scroll
or not.
If the device cannot scroll it just actually lets the image load immediately so it's a great package.
It has tremendous attention to detail and our job here is done.
More importantly give yourself a pat on the back maybe throw a party because we just finished creating
our travel Web site and that's a pretty big milestone now in our next lesson.
We will get ready to go live.
We will need to prep our site files before we go ahead and deploy them to get hubs free hosting so that
the world can view our site.
This is the one remaining step we have before we can share our site with the entire world.
We are almost to the finish line.
Let's keep rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.